Thank you.
So, yeah, as Steve said,
we're going to have a cast
of characters up here,
and he forgot to mention one,
which is John Anderson, at the very end,
is going to do a demo of the next version
of QuickTime Streaming Server Publisher,
which has some great new features that,
for the project that we're going
to talk about at my stream net,
they're very, you know,
excited about the new product because
of some of its new capabilities.
So, the agenda is, first me,
talking about some of the how-to stuff,
setting up authentication,
streaming through firewalls, etc.
And then we're going to go into this
case study on the Merit Network.
So, Merit Network,
they are a non-profit provider of
internet access for most of the
schools and universities in Michigan.
And so,
they're going to go ahead and go through
details on the history of the project,
some of the objectives.
How they set up relays,
how they've set it up so that to
redirect clients to the right server,
some of the testing and configuration,
and then future plans.
So let's dive right into some
of the specifics on how to.
So one of the things that a lot of people
want to do is set up authentication.
And there's two main reasons to do this.
One is you want to authenticate who
can broadcast through your server.
So with a live streaming product,
who can actually send
streams through your server?
And we have this thing we call automatic
announced broadcasts that save a lot
of the hassle of the way it used to
have to be done in terms of doing
a live webcast through the server.
So one of the reasons for setting
up authentication is for providing
a friendly way to do these
automatic announced broadcasts.
Then there's also just the
authentication to the media itself.
And the authentication
that we've implemented,
RTSP authentication, is very similar to
HTTP Digest authentication.
So the protocols are similar.
And the implementation is also similar
to what you would see in Apache.
So just like in Apache where you have
an HT access file for authentication,
in QuickTime Streaming Server you
have a QT access file for setting
up authentication to a specific
directory on the streaming server.
And just like Apache with HT access,
you have files,
flat files on the disk that have
the users and groups in them.
So let's just take a look at this.
For announced broadcasts,
In QuickTime Streaming Server,
we have a GUI for creating this password.
And I've highlighted
them here on the screen.
You would click on Accept Incoming
Broadcasts and click on Set Password.
So that allows you to create a username
and password for an announced broadcast.
[Transcript missing]
Now under the hood,
this all uses these files
that we talked about before.
So in this example,
I'll try this laser pointer,
I've done this cat QT access.
So I'm in the movies
folder on the server,
and I'm looking at this QT access file.
This is what's in it.
Limit write,
require group broadcaster/limit,
and then require any user.
So this one means that
to write to the server,
you have to be this
user named broadcaster.
Require any user means any other
user can just connect to the server.
So there's no authentication.
Anybody else can freely connect to
the server to access the streams.
And then this cat command is
I'm catting the QT groups file.
And actually, here's require group,
not user.
So anybody in the group broadcaster
will be able to webcast to the server.
So I've catted this QT groups
file and piped it into grep,
being a Unix weenie here, and
Look for this name broadcaster,
and these are all the users that
are going to be able to broadcast
through the server in this setup.
So, if you want to set up
your own authentication,
you're going to have to do
some command line stuff.
That's just the way it currently works.
So basically what happens if you
want to authenticate access to media,
you are going to have
to modify these files.
So again,
I've looked at the QT access file.
This time I'm saying require group users.
That means in this folder,
I have this special directory off of my
movies directory called authenticated.
So now it's just like Apache,
it's anything in this directory
will now require authentication
because I've got a QT access file in
there that says require group users.
So now you have to be in the users
group to be able to access media.
And it's going to put up this
login dialog box when you try.
So if I look through my QT groups file,
grep users, these are the users that are
in that group called users.
And then here I've shown what the
contents of the directory are.
So what happens with QuickTime Player,
you launch QuickTime Player,
you type in the URL,
you type in the URL to
that authenticated media,
and then it's going to ask you
for a username and password before
it streams the content to you.
So to create these users,
there's a command QT password,
which allows you to create new
users in the QT users file.
To create the groups,
it's just a text editor.
It's a very simple format.
It's just the group name followed
by a space delimited list of users.
So these... These files,
you can have other QT groups
and QT users files.
They don't have to be the default
files that are in the config folder
of QuickTime Streaming Server.
They can be other files.
So, you know,
you can set up your own little...
We see it in higher education in
particular where they want to give
a faculty member the capability to
create their own users and groups file.
And that works as well.
So this is kind of the old way to do
things that we've been going over,
which is what Apache has and what
QuickTime Streaming Server has.
A lot of folks want to tie
into a more organizational
authentication architecture.
And QuickTime Streaming Server,
like Apache, is written in modules.
So there are modules that can be
created or modified to do things
like customize authentication.
So one group that has done this is NYU.
So NYU is involved in an Internet2
project called Shibboleth.
Shibboleth is about
cross-realm authentication,
which means that, for instance,
the NYU library might want to trust
people from another university.
We'll say Cornell University.
They might say, well,
we've got an agreement with
Cornell Library so that we can
both access each other's stuff.
And so Shibboleth,
that's what it's about,
is this cross-realm authentication.
And if you go to the Internet2 webpage,
you can read all about Shibboleth.
They have written an Apache module.
Because it's modular, too,
for Shibboleth that allows
you to do this with websites.
So what NYU has done is taken
that infrastructure and extended
it to the streaming server.
They didn't do it directly with
the streaming server because the
Shibboleth authentication they use,
it's not just a simple challenge and
response kind of dialogue between
the web server and the client.
There's a lot that goes on there.
And that sophisticated dialogue,
the RTSP authentication,
was just too simple for that.
It didn't provide them with all
the infrastructure they needed.
So they've set it up with Apache.
So basically the flow here is
you request a URL from Safari,
your web browser.
It goes through this Apache module to
authenticate you against Shibboleth,
which does this
cross-realm authentication.
So Shibboleth can talk
to basically anything,
LDAP, Kerberos, whatever you want.
And then what they do is
once you've authenticated,
it talks to a MySQL database,
stores the IP address of the client,
the cookie, the Shib cookie,
and timestamps it,
and then redirects to this
custom module they've written
for QuickTime streaming server.
Because it's modular,
they've written this custom module that
understands these special requests,
these special URLs.
The special URL comes in,
and then this custom module goes
back to the MySQL database and says,
okay,
what IP address are they coming from?
What's the Shib cookie?
And when did they do this so
you can't replay these things?
And then it says yes or no and
delivers the stream or doesn't
deliver the stream to the client.
So this is an example of how a
customer has taken the open source
part of the streaming server,
the Darwin part of the streaming server,
customized the module so that they
can deliver custom authentication.
And we're working with NYU to try
to make this piece available through
the Darwin CVS so it would be
available to any QuickTime streaming
server or Darwin streaming server.
But you'd have to have all this other
stuff working too for it to work.
So we're in the process of trying to
figure out how to make this available
to a wider audience than NYU right now.
So pretty interesting stuff.
Next topic,
so we're done with authentication,
let's talk about firewalls.
If you have a publicly
accessible streaming server,
you should turn on port 80 streaming.
And this means that you can't run
a web server on that same port on
that same IP address on that server.
So it means that you might want to
bind your streaming server to one
IP address and the web server to
a different IP address if you want
them both to work over port 80,
or just run your web server
on 8080 or some other port.
So what this does, port 80 streaming,
is it tunnels all the
RTSP/RTP traffic through HTTP port 80,
and that means it gets
through most firewalls.
QuickTime 6 supports
automatic configuration,
so it will try RTSP over the
standard streaming ports,
and if they're not available,
it will go back to port 80,
fall back to port 80.
And this is very recommended for these
publicly accessible servers because it
allows you to get through firewalls,
and you don't know where
the client's going to be.
In your organization,
another thing that you might want
to do is open up certain ports.
So this allows you to access
streaming servers that might not
have port 80 streaming enabled.
So minimally,
you can open up TCP port 554 and 7070.
7070 is what real servers use,
and we can use it too.
But by default,
we use TCP port 554 for RTSP,
which is a signaling
protocol to the server.
And then UDP is the protocol that's
used to actually stream the data.
And you can open up a
range of ports here.
It depends on how busy your
server is and how many clients
you have connected to it.
So that's what sets that range up,
how many ports you actually need.
But a typical range is 6970 through 9999.
And then if you want to administer
the server via a web browser,
you need to open up TCP port 1220.
And if you want to administer it
through our server admin application,
you need to open up TCP.
port 311 so those are the
ports you need to have open
Another way that people set up, again,
inside an organization,
security through firewalls,
they have a special part of
their network called a DMZ,
where they put proxy servers.
And there is an RTSP proxy server
that allows you to do this.
And basically what you're doing here
is you're saying the proxy server can
talk to any server on the internet,
and any client can talk
to the proxy server.
But clients can't directly talk to
the servers out on the internet.
So it puts this go-between box in there,
and we have a version of this that's
posted to our Darwin site that
you can download and use as well.
So this is another option,
more of an institutional option, again,
for people to create firewall,
to work with a firewall.
Probably the least common.
This is the least common of the three.
So next we'll talk about the, really,
I think the meat of this presentation,
which is scaling streaming
through relays and replication.
So streaming relays are a
way to conserve bandwidth,
really.
So when you're doing a live
stream or a playlist stream,
where you're streaming stuff out in
real time to a lot of different clients,
what you can do is set up a
relay so that a client doesn't
have to go to the source server.
So this is what we've used in Michigan.
Typically a school district
doesn't have a big,
you know, OC3 line or something
like that to the internet.
They have a T3 or a T1 even,
which isn't a very big pipe.
So you're not going to be able
to get a lot of 300 kilobit
streams through a 1.5 megabit T1.
It's just,
there's not a lot of bandwidth there.
So instead of trying to get 50 people
to connect to a T1 on 300 kilobits,
which won't work because you'll,
The way overload the capacity of the T1,
you could put a relay inside the school.
Then what happens is the main
server sends a stream to the relay,
and all the clients inside the
school tune in on the local relay,
where they have plenty of
bandwidth inside the school.
So they provide these
streaming points of presence.
So this is the kind of model
that Akamai is based on.
So Akamai has this capability built in.
You may have heard of Akamai,
which is an industrial
strength replication and
service out on the internet,
but they also support
this live capability.
These relays can support
unicast or multicast.
So what I'm doing right
now is I'm multicasting.
Hopefully you're all
listening and I'm speaking,
so it's one person, lots of listeners.
So that's what multicast is about.
Whereas unicast is if we're
all on a conference call.
We'd be tying up, I don't know, eight.
A hundred phone lines.
So in unicast,
everyone makes a separate connection,
just like we do on the phone
network when we make phone calls.
These can be used with live,
or typically used with
live or playlist streams.
They can actually be used
with on-demand media,
but it's not a very common use of them.
Another way to save bandwidth
is to replicate your content.
And this is what Akamai
does in a big way,
but there are little ways you can
do this with a streaming server as
well that are pretty interesting.
And it's commonly used
for video on demand.
Moving that content closer to the client.
So relays,
the basics of relays is every relay has
one source and one or more destinations.
The source for a relay can be
one of these SDP files that
comes from a live encoder.
It can be an actual piece of media.
And it needs to have an IP address
and port numbers for that source.
Where is it going to get
that information from?
And then you can have
one or more destinations.
Where do you want to
send this stuff out to?
So that can be an IP address
with specific port numbers.
Or it can be this thing called
an announced destination,
which means that it will do the
same thing the broadcaster does.
It will announce the
broadcast to that destination,
automatically generate the SDP file,
figure out the port numbers, etc.
So a very simple configuration
for a relay is where you have a
main campus and a remote campus.
On the main campus, again,
you're trying to make most
effective use of bandwidth.
So you have a lot of clients out
on the remote campus and then a
lot of clients on the main campus
that want to view this webcast.
And then you have an encoder,
labeled as a broadcaster in this slide.
So the broadcaster sends,
creates this SDP file,
sends a stream off to
the main campus server.
The clients on the main campus would
just be able to tune in on the SDP file.
They're seeing what's
called a reflected stream.
They're getting a reflected
stream off of the broadcaster.
This allows you to scale up because
most of these webcasting products,
you know, encoders, support, say,
one to ten clients at the most.
So you really need a streaming
server in there to scale
just internally to more than,
you know, a handful of clients.
And in this case,
what we've done is we've created a
relay on the main campus server to
send the stream to a remote campus.
And that remote campus server reflects
the stream to all the clients.
And the value of this is we only have
one stream going over the internet.
Instead of all those clients
on the remote campus creating
their own connections back
to the main campus server,
they're just connecting locally.
So that's the value of a relay.
And there are, simplistically,
I described two basic kinds of relays.
Pull and push.
So a pull relay,
what this does is the relay is
pulling a stream from a remote
source and relaying it locally.
So this would be, in this case, the look,
the relay is set up on the remote campus.
The remote campus is
pulling it from Merit,
in this case,
that's what I call it from Merit,
from a server called MIStreemNet1.
And I give it the path to the SDP file.
When you do this kind of pull relay,
you have to authenticate
to the main server.
Using the administrator.
The administrator is the
administrative user name and
password of the streaming server.
Anybody that's in the admin group.
So it doesn't have to be the
administrator of the server,
which would be, I think, a bad idea.
It can be anybody that's in that
QT groups file listed in the admin group.
So it doesn't, that user can be not a
real user on the system.
This is one of those
times when having it,
the users not as real
users comes in handy,
actually.
So this is the remote campus server.
It's pulling in this content.
And relaying it locally.
So that's the source.
The destination is itself.
It's very common for either
the source or the destination
to be the loopback address.
So in this case,
the destination is the server itself.
And we're calling the,
giving it the same file name.
Because it is the loopback address,
we don't need a user name and password.
We don't need to authenticate
because we're talking to ourselves.
We figure that's secure.
Okay.
Then the other kind of relay is,
is a push relay.
And this is also very common.
This is what we've used in Michigan.
So this is when local streams
are pushed out to another server.
So you have a stream coming into
the server and we want to push
it out to multiple destinations.
So in this case,
the source is the loopback
address and this file name.
The destination is a remote server
and there are a few different types
of destinations we can use here.
I'll bring up my little crib notes here.
So, there's unannounced UDP is
what this is set up.
So a specific IP address and port number.
This destination address
can be a multicast address,
as we'll see in a little bit.
It can be a unicast address,
or it can be announced UDP.
Announced UDP is just
like the broadcaster.
So it needs a username and password.
It's automatically going to
generate the SDP on the destination.
So it acts basically just like
a live broadcaster would act.
So beyond the basics,
a relay can pull from a source
and push to a destination.
A real common scenario for this would be,
let's go back to that scenario
where we have the remote campus.
On the remote campus we
have this server out there,
and if you saw my picture,
what it was doing was it was pulling
the content from the main campus and
relaying it locally as a unicast.
To itself.
So it was just sending it back to itself
so that people could tune in on that.
But what if we wanted to relay
it as a multicast to make even
more effective use of bandwidth?
Then what we would do is we would pull it
from the remote server and push it to a
multicast address on the local network.
So you can pull and push.
But as I said,
it's very common for either the source or
the destination to be the machine itself.
We have found that when you're
using multiple destinations,
as they're doing in Michigan,
that this unannounced UDP provides
the most robust configuration.
The main reason is if the relay server
becomes unavailable for whatever reason,
and then becomes available again,
clients automatically reconnect
when you set it up this way.
So the unannounced UDP,
because the packets are just
flowing out on the network,
if there's an interruption in the flow,
as soon as the flow is restored,
clients will continue to receive
the stream without hands-off.
Whereas if you're using
an announced webcast,
the clients have to reconnect.
Because with an announced webcast,
that STP file gets deleted
when the flow is interrupted.
And it goes away,
so that's why the clients
need to reconnect.
You can also reflect a multicast
source with the streaming server.
So this means if you
had a rack of servers,
each one serving a different subnet,
You could multicast one stream to
all those servers from your encoder,
your broadcaster,
and each one of those could
reflect those as unicasts off to
different parts of your campus.
[Transcript missing]
If we put this on the streaming
server and people tune in on it,
the streaming server reflects
the multicast as unicast,
which is a useful thing,
but not what we want in this case.
To actually tune in on a multicast,
you need to put the
SDP file on any web server,
and that's the easiest way to do it.
And you can just drag and drop
it on QuickTime Player too,
or email it, or whatever you want to do,
but the easiest way is to put it on a web
server and then people use an HTTP URL to
connect to the multicast SDP file.
On the main campus server,
we're relaying also to the remote campus.
So in this case,
what we're doing is we're sending
a unicast stream from the main
campus to the destination,
which is the remote campus.
So the destination is that remote server,
and we've decided again we're using
unannounced UDP because it's more robust.
And we know that if the stream
somehow gets interrupted,
this will continue to go as soon
as the things start back up again.
On the remote server,
we're going to set up the same thing
we have on the main campus server.
We're going to tune in
on that incoming stream,
so the source is ourselves,
and it's just on that IP address,
listening to specific ports.
So it's unannounced UDP.
We're saying, look at ourselves,
look at these two specific ports.
That's our source.
We know we're getting a stream there.
We're acting basically as
a client to that stream.
And then we're going
to set the destination,
and in this case,
I'm reusing the same multicast address.
Because these are two separate networks,
I can do this.
And I'm using the same multicast address.
That's a good thing to do in this case,
because then we can
use the same SDP file.
We don't have to edit it again.
We can just use the same
file we already edited.
Put it on a web server and it just works.
So that's a more sophisticated one.
I have a website that tries to
untangle all this stuff for people
and to help you do more sophisticated
stuff with a streaming server.
It's just soundscreen.com.
So if you go to that website,
you can get in touch with
me through that page.
Also, I've got a lot of instructional
information on the how-tos
on all these things.
So with that, though,
I want to turn it over here to Laurence,
or Laurie Kirchmeier,
who is the Senior Engineer of
Networking R&D for Merit Network,
and Patrick Bymhold,
who is the Systems Engineer that supports
education in the state of Michigan,
and I've worked closely with them on
their statewide streaming initiative.
Hello.
As we get into this,
Patrick and I have worked very closely
over the last year putting this together.
And so we thought that we would sort
of tag-team this presentation because
there's parts that we both worked on.
So we'll see how this goes.
As I say,
I'm a senior engineer with Merit Network.
Merit is a statewide network for sort
of educational institutions in Michigan.
The 15 universities are sort of the
board members of the Merit board.
And we have over 200 affiliates
connected to the statewide network,
those affiliates being the ISDs,
school districts, hospitals, libraries.
And so the objectives we have here...
were to provide an infrastructure
for statewide live webcasting.
The impetus for this was from one
of the regional educational media
centers had a broadcast studio,
and they were doing satellite broadcasts
of administrative broadcasts to school
administrators on various topics,
like No Child Left Behind,
and that's one example.
And they wanted a way to provide
that broadcast to users without
the administrators having to
drive to a central location to
watch this satellite broadcast,
or having to go to receive it over an
HC23 stream to a video conferencing room.
So, um, um,
[Transcript missing]
Pressing too fast, I'm sure.
It's all the coffee you had this morning.
I know.
That's right.
We'll get back.
As I say, some of these school districts
are connected with a T1,
and so you had four users on there,
and you overloaded their inbound
connection to their network.
So the solution was to deploy a
hierarchy of streaming servers
with... Let's go to this slide.
And so that's what we did.
And so now we can have a broadcaster
at any location on the network,
on the Internet, basically.
There's one single,
this green dotted line,
it's a single stream that is
central master relay server,
and Merit Network,
we're providing the co-location
space and sort of the bandwidth,
free bandwidth, basically,
for this master relay server.
And so this master relay server, in turn,
just redirects the broadcast out
to a number of relay servers,
in the different school districts,
and around the state of Michigan.
So thus minimizing the bandwidth,
going across those expensive links,
or for the school districts,
the expensive links to our network.
So again,
with regards to multicast and unicast,
MissionNet is a
multicast-enabled network.
And so wherever we can,
we would like to be able to send a
multicast stream to the relay servers.
And we're working with our affiliates
to see whether that can be done.
So now we're going to talk about,
or at least start talking about,
the things we've learned.
This has been an amazing
journal over the past year.
A few more.
Yep.
I'd like to take the opportunity
right now to thank the person that
has more information and has had
about QuickTime Streaming Server,
which is George Cook,
than I think anybody does.
So if you get a chance,
take a look at his site.
But we ended up with, right now,
we have 16 locations,
15 locations in the state of Michigan,
including Copper Country.
It was a nice seven-hour drive.
Up to Houghton, Michigan,
to set up that server.
And the thing that's been most
informational about this whole project
is working with 16 WAN managers,
right?
Because now I have 16 people that are
responsible for their own networks.
Every network has been
completely different.
And so we've had some serious
growing that we had to do.
So go on to the --
So, um, okay.
Are you,
is there something you want to add?
Um, just talking about working
with these 16 WAN managers,
the other interesting piece
to this is that you tend to
have separate people wanting to
deliver the content on a campus.
You have the content folks who
are wanting to get the stream in,
and then you have the
networking WAN folks.
And deploying a QuickTime Streaming
Server tends to bring those two
groups closer together very quickly.
And that's something which is good.
I mean, and it's definitely an education
for the network administrators.
And as Patrick mentioned,
he has been doing the legwork,
driving to all these locations,
installing these servers,
and has done an amazing job.
[Transcript missing]
So some of the things we
wanted to do was make sure we
could broadcast from anywhere.
We want to be able to eventually
have students that are working on
projects in an educational institution
anywhere in Michigan broadcast.
We've got a program
going on at 11 o'clock,
or a program going on at noon.
We have actually had conversations
about universities doing school nights.
So instead of students having
to go to the university,
they tune into the school night event
that's taking place in their local
school district from MI StreamNet.
So broadcast from anywhere.
We want to be able to
have the parent node.
push information out to the relays
regarding the content of the video.
We'll talk about it in a minute,
but I've got this thing now that
I call the Microsoft effect.
And it's bad for me to say
that nobody's from Microsoft.
We're in an Apple developer conference,
I can say this part.
But this whole notion of servers
do a good communication in terms
of announced relays over ICMP.
No, the pinging between the... Yeah.
And so there's some organizations
where actually ICMP's been turned off,
right?
And so we have servers that can't talk
with each other anymore and they just,
"Oh, I'm going to stop broadcasting
now because I don't know if I can
talk to the child." Replicate,
we're going to talk about replication
of content over the servers over
our sync and then the thing that
Laura's going to get to is how we
made all this thing come together,
the Akamai effect with
the redirection script.
The children notes,
we wanted them to be able
to have access to the data,
meaning the video coming in from the
streaming server via the STP file.
And when you start--is anybody
running streaming servers?
Everybody?
The thing that I have to say is don't
make this any harder than it actually is.
For some reason,
the hardest time we had in setting
up the servers we were setting up is
we thought it had to be harder math.
We thought maybe we
needed a pocket protector,
some incredible slide rule,
something that, you know,
would allow this to make sense to us.
But really, this is just very,
very simple in the way
that it can be configured.
Okay.
The last thing that I think is
from Merit's perspective being an
ISP and we were concerned about
the--whilst we've got these 15 relay
servers around the state and users
get redirected to pull their streams
from these local points of presence
in their various school districts,
we were concerned about how many other
users might tune in who are--don't have
that--don't have a local relay server.
And so, what we put in as a second
QuickTime streaming server
in the Merit data center,
which would take--which would be
the catch-all server for users
who are not redirected to a local
streaming server in their ISD.
And so,
we're sort of working to see how much
bandwidth we're willing to donate for
that and how much demand there is.
But again,
this is a useful tool because we
can begin to see if more users come
in from another school district,
we can begin to go to that target,
that school district and say, "Hey,
if you put a streaming
server in your district,
then you wouldn't incur those--all
the bandwidth costs across your
link to our network and there'll
be a great benefit." Okay.
So, the one note that we have is
we've limited the shunt server
so that it allows up to 50 users.
Right.
Anybody that's outside of the service
area will not end up doing so.
And really,
what we want to do is if it's a
51st person goes and clicks on
that stream--on that shunt server,
what we should really do is
put up a webpage which says,
"You should go buy a QuickTime--or
get your network first or--to buy
a QuickTime streaming server and
put it in your school district
and then you could watch this."
So some of the stuff we learned.
The first time we set this up,
we used announced relay,
which is the easiest way
to set up a relay network.
I don't know if anybody's looked at
expanding their networks or they're
doing hierarchical broadcasting.
But announced relay, very simple,
put in from QuickTime Streaming Server.
I'm simply setting up a-- actually,
I'm going to talk about that in a minute.
The first time we set this up,
we used announced relay.
So let's go on to the next slide.
In an announced relay,
the parents responsible for getting the
content out to the children's servers,
what I call children's servers,
so they know where the
broadcast is coming from.
A parent announces the STP file,
and each one of the children
simply tune into the STP file,
because it's sitting inside their
library slash movies directory.
Next.
This was a great solution.
Very, very simple in setting up.
Distributed streaming server network.
We also found a very interesting feature
built into streaming server in that it
If one of the children was not available,
the streaming server would simply say,
I can't broadcast anymore,
and restart itself every two minutes.
So we ended up with these live broadcasts
where the video is being restarted every
two minutes over and over and over again.
You just stop for two minutes and
you tune in and you see a little
bit more and then it would stop.
Yeah, and so we had two things
that were taking place.
Firewall configurations, right,
or again the Microsoft effect,
which goes back to firewall
configurations because there was no ICMP.
So one of the things I would recommend
in setting up a distributed network if
you're going over firewalls is make sure
that you have a one-to-one relationship.
The easiest conversation for
me with the network managers,
the WAN managers was, set up your parent,
set up your child,
and set up the firewall in between
so that the two just can do anything
they want to do with each other.
There is no restriction,
there is no port mapping,
it's just a completely open connection
between those two devices on the network.
So we worked at this for a little while,
and we continued having problems,
so we switched to...
Unannounced.
Basically, give a name,
give a port number.
So this is on the parent server.
The parent simply got a relay set up.
And we'll see some in just a sec.
And it simply says,
I'm sending data to this
port number at this machine.
It doesn't even care if
the machine's out there.
It's just, here's video.
You're going to tune into it.
You can watch the video
to your heart's content.
If not, I don't care, really.
I'm just giving you video.
Go on.
So this is the way the network
is currently configured.
I didn't mention in the first part,
we have QuickTime Broadcaster
running on a machine at
Wayne County Resort right now.
And we've simply taken the STP file off,
QuickTime Broadcaster exported
it and put it inside the
movies directory in the parent.
Each one of the children
have been set up so that they
simply tune into the STP file.
And we're going to look at the
STP file in a minute so you
can see what that looks like.
It's, again, very simple.
We thought it had to be hard.
Patrick went and I hardly ever use Excel.
I used Excel and I got this spreadsheet
that just would cover this whole stage.
And it's got this flowing set of formulas
where you can figure out port mappings.
Oh my gosh,
I would open source this thing.
It was so amazing.
And it didn't need to be that hard,
right?
So I still have it.
We thought we had to
have a unique STP file.
I thought about printing it,
but I really don't need it now.
So anyway, so we copied the broadcaster
file up to the server.
One of the relays are configured
inside the streaming server
and we'll look at that.
And then video goes down
to the children nodes.
So this is the way we're
currently configured.
And this has been the best
experience that we've had.
Go on.
One other thing to note.
I like to think of the way this is set
up is that the STP file is the key.
If you don't have the STP file
on the child relay server,
the master relay, the parent server,
is sending the data down.
And it's only when you get the key,
that key on that local relay server,
that the stream actually
gets into that local relay
server and users can watch it.
And so it's a good sort of analogy.
Some of the things we like about this.
The fact that if the
parent ends up going away,
the children don't lose the
connection to the viewers that
are watching the broadcast when
the parent comes back online.
If for some reason it goes down,
the children will automatically
pick up in the broadcast that
they were showing to the viewers.
This is a huge note with the little
pointer up in the third line up there.
The same SDP file we use for children
to tune into the broadcast can be
distributed throughout the children.
So with our sync,
we're actually looking at the ability
to say we're going to have 20 channels,
right?
And channel 1 equals,
and with the information that
we're going to have regarding
local host address 127.0.0.1,
we will distribute that throughout the
entire network affecting all the servers.
And we see this thing growing.
We've got 17 servers, 16 servers now.
We've got two more coming online.
So it'll be a lot of fun.
It'll be nice to be able to
have this easy configuration be
replicable throughout the state.
Next.
So, let's talk about the way this works.
On the left-hand side,
inside Streaming Server Admin,
The next slide is the relays themselves,
and there's some information you
associate with the relay itself.
And then next is, on the right-hand side,
the actual servers that you're
redistributing this broadcast to.
So go on.
I have a clicker,
but it doesn't work with that thing.
But I wanted this.
So we set up the server
so we have a relay name.
It doesn't really affect in terms of
what the user is going to be tuning into.
We have a relay point, basically 020.sdp,
and this is the mount point,
or the broadcast connection point,
and the server ends up pointing
it back to itself because we have
the broadcaster sending video to a
specific IP address on the network.
We're not going to share it with you
because it's not fair for us to do that.
But we tell the server,
"Tune into yourself to watch the
broadcast because it knows that this
020.sdp file has all the information it
needs to be able to get to the broadcast.
The broadcaster is sending."
Go on to the next one.
And then within the relay setup,
We have each one of the servers defined,
either by IP address or by name.
This actually doesn't have to be
a name that is resolvable by DNS.
It can actually be a name
that's sitting in the host file.
And the port that this is
going to be broadcast to.
And as I mentioned before,
we're talking about channel 20.
This could be that all the servers
for channel 20 are sitting at 21.326
throughout the entire network.
So the server simply says I'm
broadcasting to this UDB base port.
Go on to the next one.
So remember this number.
UDB base port actually
ends up being two ports.
21.326 is the beginning port.
And you will notice we
assigned this to audio.
We didn't.
QuickTime did.
And then video is assigned to 21.328.
This does not mean you can start
messing around with the port 21.327.
Basically three ports are broadcast
is what you're going to be using.
And I tried to get crazy
with the spreadsheet.
I tried to figure out a way to
maximize my number of ports.
Because when I was thinking I had
to have a look at George laughing.
He had a fun time with this.
He really didn't tell me this.
I knew he didn't tell me.
I'm making that part up.
But I started to get crazy with
how I was configuring the ports.
And it turned out that the 327 is a,
I don't know, sync port.
Something that is used by the
server in terms of communication.
So this information really isn't
pertinent to what we're talking
about regarding the broadcast.
Talk to myself.
Look at these ports.
And then start spreading video to the
viewers that are wanting to tune in.
When are the next ones?
The crossed out lines.
I mean,
you can delete those out of the STP file.
So that was the unique thing.
It turned out that, go back one.
It turned out that these three lines
right here are extremely important.
And George can talk about that.
I didn't have them.
And we couldn't have a broadcast.
And of course, he's like, oh, well,
you're messing with these three lines.
Guy's scary.
Okay, I'll talk about live redirection.
As we said, we want to redirect the users
to the closest streaming server
local to their school district.
What we've put together is a
CGI Perl script and what will be
a database right now is a flat
configuration file which contains a
mapping between a set of IP address
ranges for that school district and
then the address of the local relay
server to redirect the user to.
And so the users can open up a URL.
They pause the CGI Perl script
and they automatically get XML
Data back to QuickTime Player or
to QuickTime embedded in a browser,
telling it to open up the
stream from the local server.
We also added, what I worked on was
some additional logging,
so we could log as users get
redirected or do not get redirected,
so we could begin to
see how successfully,
how well the coverage was
of local relay servers.
And again, we could have the ability to
redirect users to a live stream,
to an STP file on a local relay server,
or to replicated movies or MP4s,
whatever media we have
replicated on the local relay.
This redirection script
will work with any of those.
This is just a one-line example.
We've just got the child IP address,
the relay address,
and then the client address
range start and end.
As the script is called, essentially,
you can see there's a curl statement.
We're just showing that when the
script gets called by the browser,
you can use curl as a command
line to make this call.
This is what gets returned, this XML,
and this is passed to QuickTime,
either the QuickTime player or to
QuickTime inside of the browser,
and does the necessary redirection,
passing the redirection to
the local relay IP address,
followed by the name of the STP file.
This is showing the embed command,
how you would embed the call,
the object embed command to
To embed the call,
this is our master relay server,
and we're calling this Perl script,
mystreamnet.perl,
with the name of the SDV file.
And what results from that call is
this redirection to the local server.
We're going to talk, yeah.
So what we wanted to do was,
as we rolled out these servers,
we wanted to do a whole set of
testing and load testing as much
as possible to make sure we...
and many more.
So, I think that's it.
I think that this session, I think,
is going to be the last one.
I think it would run under loads.
Certainly, we wanted to stress
the redirection script,
and so we developed what there's
a one -- a Python script,
which George put together to stress
test the redirection script itself.
And then we also used
streaming load tool,
which is part of
QuickTime Streaming Server.
Is it part of the release?
Yeah.
It's on every server, isn't it?
I think.
Yeah.
So, do you want to talk a
little more about that?
Sure.
So, two things I wanted to add.
So, we've been talking very
positively about MiStreamNet,
and it worked incredibly well the
last two broadcasts that we had,
but we actually were at a point
where we had four broadcasts and
all of them ended up with some
part of the network falling apart.
So we were needing to find ways,
brought George out,
to figure out what the
heck was taking place.
And if anybody thinks that
MacOSX server and QuickTime Streaming
Server and NXServe is not an
incredibly powerful tool to use,
I just have to let you know what we
saw these things capable of doing.
At my StreamNet,
our parent streaming server,
we were simulating 500
broadcasts along with 17 relays.
And it just ran for like hours and
hours and hours and hours and hours.
And this is great.
We thought this was amazing.
We got a 10 megabit
connection to the network.
We got a 100 megabit
And we've got 500 users that
are watching this video,
plus we're doing video out to relays.
I think overall we simulated 2,000.
2,000, 3,000 users on the net because
we started stream loading each
one of the relay servers or the
children's servers out on the stage.
And it was great.
It worked.
The only problem was we had not gotten
to the point where the server failed,
which is what we were trying to find,
until the day that we got Ken Schramm,
who's been the most wonderful
person to work with.
He grew up in the video world, right?
In the video world, if something fails,
you get rid of it.
There's no three strikes and you're out.
If something fails in the video world,
it's just done.
Dead.
Don't talk to me anymore.
And we were bringing him up
in this electronic world,
which is a little bit different.
And as soon as I got Ken on the phone,
I'm like, Ken, check this out.
We're doing these broadcasts.
Working just great.
We got things figured out because
we reconfigured some stuff.
And as soon as he got on the phone,
he's like, oh, that looks wonderful.
Bam.
And my StreamNet 1 goes down.
And we had to go actually
restart the machine.
Well, it turned out,
and the reason I'm bringing this up is,
Streaming Load Tool is
a great application that
comes with Streaming Server.
You can simulate.
A hundred, not a hundred, you know,
25 to 50 users per connection
hitting the server in real time.
So it's sending out the bandwidth
to each one of those connections.
And so, long story short,
it turned out that we ended
up with a motherboard in our
server that had a problem.
Only related to power changes
that were taking place in the
environment that it was in.
So it was like one of those
things you would never find.
But we ended up with a guy putting
a new server in the server room
that we had our MIS Stream.1 in.
And he turned on a server.
And that little switch changed the
power enough for that configuration
that the server was just like,
Come on in here.
Done.
See you tomorrow.
So we got a new motherboard.
Things have been working perfect.
Ever since.
But I think that,
going back to talking about working
with this video production person,
I mean, with any of this,
when you roll out a service like this,
I mean, you,
it's important that it works.
I mean, that it, it's hard,
you don't get many chances with this.
You want to make sure when you
roll this out that it runs.
Because if you're dealing with video
production folks from that world,
they really have a very
low tolerance for failure.
I mean, and so.
It's important to test and.
So assuming we rolled the load
tool became a great solution.
Is the Python script available
at the site that you have?
So basically the Python script is what
we use to simulate 100 users per second,
hitting the redirect script to make
sure we weren't having some kind of
memory problem with Apache or the script
we'd written to do the redirection.
And the thing that ended up in the
end giving us the information we
needed was the server monitor tools.
Anybody using an XServe,
the server monitor tools are incredible.
They're really great for what
the information it can provide.
Some things that I would recommend,
all services we're
running on the servers,
anything that's not
necessary is turned off.
So anything that's taking
place in terms of file copies,
we're doing over SCP.
We've actually set up firewall
rules so that the things
that we need to be public,
like 1220,
we have that open to the world so
we can get to it from anywhere.
660 is what we actually have for
server settings on 10.2 server.
We're going to be up to 10.3
by the end of the summer,
which is just a little bit more time.
So we're going to be able to do that.
That should take us back to 3.11.
And then because we're using SCP and SSH,
we actually have the firewall set up
so that there's only one machine on
the Internet that has the ability to
administer these servers over SSH,
which we're not going to tell you
because you might try and get into it.
So I would highly recommend to not run as
much on the servers as you possibly can.
Lock this thing down because it's
sitting out in a public place
and this thing doesn't work.
What's the next one?
This is where George talks.
It is.
We'll all say it one stage.
So, streaming mode tool comes with both
Darwin and QuickTime Streaming Server,
and it's a great tool for stress testing.
And as these folks said,
the main thing here was testing,
you know?
And I see some other folks
I know in the audience,
and they know that that is
the critical component here,
is that when you're
rolling out something,
a new set of services on the network,
especially something new like streaming,
the important thing is
do some stress testing,
you know, make sure that you've got
things under control before,
you know,
you do a broad-scale deployment.
So, some of the things we did was we,
each instance of streaming mode tool,
we set up to do 50 concurrent clients.
We have multiple instances running.
We have three different machines
running multiple instances,
and we loaded the heck out of the server,
and we're amazed.
We're amazed at the performance.
And I recently,
Simon again from Wirecast was showing
me a Swedish newspaper that is,
[Transcript missing]
and the rest of the team.
We're also working on some
monitoring tools and Laurie is
really excited about putting some
of this stuff into a SQL database.
I've just been doing flashy
QuickTime stuff so far.
So this is something we're working
on for local administrators.
The idea is the local WAN guys that
are out in these school districts,
we want to provide them with a
tool that they can use to monitor
the server but not give them full
administrative privileges to the server.
I think again, monitoring,
especially during the testing phase,
being able to monitor and know
how many streams are actually
running on the child relays.
If something does go wrong,
you've got some logs that you
can go back and really begin to
figure out what was the state.
So we're really excited about that.
We're also working on some
of the new capabilities.
We're going to be able to use the tools
that we've got in the next version
to actually monitor the content,
place it on the server.
There will be a website for them
to go to to get educated on that.
So that's another work in progress.
QuickTime streaming server publisher.
We're really excited
about the new version.
One of the new capabilities that's
coming in the next version is the
ability for end users to use the tool.
Right now it requires
an administrative user,
which limits the scope of its use,
but with the capability for
end users to basically publish
streaming content or downloadable
content to their own devices.
That's going to be a
really exciting thing.
So we're really excited about that.
We're also working on some of the new
capabilities that we've got in the next
version to actually monitor the content,
place it on the server.
There will be a website for them
to go to to get educated on that.
One of the new capabilities that's
coming in the next version is the
ability for end users to use the tool.
Right now it requires
an administrative user,
which limits the scope of its use,
but with the capability for
end users to basically publish
streaming content or downloadable
content to their own devices.
That's going to be a
really exciting thing.
So, MyStreamNet.
This is the folks at Wayne Resa,
who are the third partner of
MyStreamNet with Merit and Apple.
We've got an amazing web designer
who's putting together this website,
and this is the live
streaming page of the website.
And so, we're giving the users the
ability to view the stream within
a QuickTime browser window.
[Transcript missing]
And so the other way,
you can also click and view it
in a QuickTime player window.
The other piece,
we're also saving archives.
Oh, maybe this isn't working.
We have all the archives
of previous broadcasts that
we've done over the last year,
and users can view these at any time.
Do you want to show the...
[Transcript missing]
So this is graphing bandwidth usage
coming from the server in real time,
and I can change the
interval of the graph,
and I can change the bitrate.
But while it's doing that,
let's go ahead and we'll start
up a stream from the server.
So we have this movie.
So we'll go ahead and start this up,
and you see that the bandwidth jumps up.
Now, it jumped up a lot
there in the beginning.
That's because we're
doing the skip protection,
and we're sending a whole
bunch of packets down,
and then it will start to
settle down as the buffer fills.
So it's kind of a cool thing to be able
to watch the bandwidth in real time,
right?
So that's one little hack.
The other one that,
and what's neat about this is
that the admin protocol that
all this stuff is talking to,
Lori's really excited about logging
all this stuff into a database.
I like the cool, whizzy demos myself.
I like the demos as well.
So here's another one that we've done.
So I'm going to go ahead
and set this to one minute.
So it's polling now every one minute.
This is the number of connections,
RTSP connections, or we can look at
HTTP tunnel connections.
We can look at the RTP bandwidth.
So let's crank this
back up to five seconds.
So now we're looking at the individual
nodes around the network and seeing
what the current bandwidth is.
And this is the main server here.
So, you know,
just some interesting things that
you can do with wired QuickTime.
So thank you totally hip for
your tool because it allows
you to do all these things.
And then we actually have this web page,
but I left the password over there.
If you want to see the web page,
it's just talking to CGI's.
And you can actually drill down
on the individual sessions.
You can see what IP address somebody is
coming from and what piece of content
they're watching with the admin protocol.
So you can get that level of
detail with this admin protocol.
Very exciting in terms
of how we log this stuff,
how we track it in the future.
Okay, so I think that's it
for us for right now.
And what I want to do is
invite up John Anderson.
And John is on the streaming
server engineering team.
And he is largely responsible for
QuickTime Streaming Server Publisher.
And there's a new version coming,
as I said.
What's exciting to us about
this tool is to really leverage
these child node servers to be
able to take those servers and,
in the school district,
Allow faculty to give them
a very easy-to-use tool to
publish their own content,
locally hosted content,
to these streaming servers,
which is something we found very
effective at a lot of schools,
and now we have a great
new tool to support it.
Thank you.
It's a little weird with the microphone.
It's like karaoke or something.
I'm going to go ahead and close this.
As it was mentioned before,
one of the big features
in QTSS Publisher 2 is...
Hello?
OK.
As was mentioned before,
one of the major features
in QTSS Publisher 2 is that
anybody can log in to their home
directory and publish content.
They don't have to be an administrator.
So that's a great new feature.
I'm going to go ahead and
start this up and log in.
There's also been a lot of
great performance improvements
in the application.
It has a new UI now.
So if anybody is familiar
with QTSS Publisher 1,
you had all these different modes
that you had to go through where you
were uploading your media in one mode,
and then you'd go to the
settings and set that up,
and you'd go to links.
At this point,
everything is all in one place.
Another thing that's nice, that's new,
is if you're binding QuickTime Streaming
Server to specific IP addresses,
so that, for example,
you can run on port 80 and then run
your web server on another IP address,
you can actually pick which IP address
you want published files through.
So that's really nice.
Also,
if you have multiple virtual hosts set
up in server admin for the web server,
you can pick any of
those sites here as well.
And then of course,
if you're an administrator,
you get a choice.
You can work either out
of the system library,
or you can work out of
your home folder as well.
So that's kind of a nice feature.
And so what I'm going to do here is
I'm going to go ahead and open on this
up and upload one of these movies.
And it's real simple.
All you do is just drag
it into the library.
That uploads the movie and in addition,
it will hint the movie as well.
So it will add hint tracks to the
movie automatically on the server.
So now what I can do is
I can click on this movie.
Now when we put files into the library,
they actually go into a location outside
of the QuickTime Streaming Server folder.
And the reason for that is that you may
want to make a movie available only via
simulated live broadcasts or playlists.
And so that gives you the
opportunity to do that.
But what I'm going to do is I'm going
to go ahead and check this checkbox,
which is Publish Media to
QuickTime Streaming Server.
And when I hit Apply,
what this is going to do is it's
actually going to create a sim link in
the QuickTime Streaming Server folder.
It will also go and create a
ref movie that points to the
movie on the streaming server.
So it does all of that automatically.
Over here you get a URL that you
can copy and paste into the player,
and then you can also just click Play.
And the movie's up and running.
So it's very simple streaming.
And then of course,
if you want to set up a
simulated live playlist,
which is great for relays,
something that you can then
relay off to other servers,
all I have to do is click
on this plus button,
and I'll just name it playlist.
Much like iTunes, you create the playlist
and drag the file to it.
And that's it.
If you want,
you can change weights on this.
So you can do a weighted random playlist,
and that will actually play
some tracks more than others.
And then you just start it.
Now the cool thing is,
I'm going to go back to the file.
Not only is it publishing those
files and making them available,
you can change the
annotations anytime you want,
and it will re-hint the
movie when it's done.
And in addition,
down here you get all of the
HTML to embed the movie in a page.
So basically you can
choose whether you want to,
for example, open the movie in
QuickTime Player or have it autoplay.
And once you choose that,
you have HTML right here that you can
copy and paste into Dreamweaver or
BBEdit or any other web page editor.
In addition to that,
I can actually create a web
page directly from here.
This is a development OS,
so this may or may not work.
We'll have to see.
But I'll just go ahead and create a page,
and we'll drag the file to it.
This will actually generate a
page based on an XSLT template
that has the movie in it.
Now, of course,
I haven't set a poster frame,
so it's just defaulting
to the first frame.
But if I click on that,
then that automatically
brings up the movie.
So that's Publisher.